Fairly big rewrite of preface (#32)
resampling-stats/resampling-with: source/preface_third.Rmd

by way of mathematics is like teaching philosophy in a foreign language.

But what should we do, if we cannot teach statistics through mathematics, and
we cannot accept the results of applying the cookbook method to the students or
to the teachers?  It is Simon's extraordinary achievement, that he saw clearly
what to do, and then made it work.

The first thing that Simon saw was what he needed to do to bypass the
mathematics.  His deep insight was this (from the original preface): "Beneath
the logic of a statistical inference there necessarily lies a physical
process".  He saw that drawing conclusions from noisy data means building a
*model* of the noisy world, and seeing how that model behaves. That model can
be physical, where we generate the noisiness of the world using physical
devices like dice and spinners and coin-tosses. In fact, Simon used and taught
exactly these kinds of devices in his first experiments in teaching these
methods [@simon1969basic]. He quickly realized that it was much more efficient
to build these models with simple computer code, and the result was the first
and second editions of this book, with their associated software, the

> *Resampling Stats* language. That language had many good qualities, but, as you

Reviewer: Should we still say something about his language being replaced?

> Simon gives the early history of this book in original preface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simon gives the early history of this book in the original preface
```

> His first conclusion was that introductory courses in statistics use far too

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first was that introductory courses in statistics use far too
```

> much mathematics. Most students cannot follow that
> mathematics, and they quickly get lost, reducing the subject to  "mumbo-jumbo"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
much mathematics. Most students cannot follow along and
quickly get lost, reducing the subject to  "mumbo-jumbo"
```

> On its own, this was not a new conclusion.  Simon quotes a classic textbook by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On its own, this was not a new realization.  Simon quotes a classic textbook by
```

> Stats* language — of which more later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stats* language.
```

> Simon's second conclusion follows from the first. Now that Simon had stripped

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simon's second conclusion follows from his first. After stripping
```

> away the unnecessary barrier of mathematics, he had got to the heart of what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
away the unnecessary barrier of mathematics, he got to the heart of what
```

> is interesting and difficult in statistics.  Drawing conclusions from noisy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is interesting and difficult in statistics: drawing conclusions from noisy
```

> not be), but because it deals with difficult problems. It is exactly that hard logical thinking that can make statistics so

Reviewer: "exactly that hard" is an awkward phrase.  Can we replace it with something else?

> We needed both of Simon's conclusions to get anywhere.   We cannot hope to

Reviewer: This paragraph doesn't quite show how the two ideas come together.

I'm not sure the second is much of an idea.  It seems like he's saying: stats requires thinking about your problem, but there's something in the way—this wall of mathematics you have put in front of it.  Let's get the wall out the way so we can get on with business.

real, interesting problem — the hard thinking about data, and the world it
comes from. To quote from a later section in this book
(\@ref(resamp-differs)): "Once we get rid of the formulas and tables, we can
see that statistics is a matter of *clear thinking, not fancy mathematics*."
Instead of asking "where would I look up the right recipe for this", you
find yourself asking "what kind of world do these data come from?" and "how
can I reason about that world?".  Like Simon, we have found that this way of

> thinking and teaching is almost magically liberating and satisfying.  We hope

Reviewer: I would avoid "almost magically" throughout the book.  It is not magical at all!  It is very clear why.

> Data scientists’ most basic, universal skill is the ability to write code --
> @davenport2012data

Further reflection [@donoho201750_official] suggested that something deep was

> going on — that *data science* was the expression of a radical change in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
going on: that *data science* was the expression of a radical change in the
```

way we analyze data, in academia, and in industry.  At the center of this

> change — was code.  Code is the language that allows us to tell the computer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
change was code.  Code is the language that allows us to tell the computer
```

book as a primary text for first statistics courses.  We hope you will find,
as we have, that this method of explaining through building is much more
productive and satisfying than the traditional method of trying to convey some
"intuitive" understanding of fairly complicated mathematics.  We explain the
relationship of these resampling techniques to traditional methods.  Even if
you do need to teach your students t-tests, and analysis of variance, we hope
you will share our experience that this way of explaining is much more
compelling than the traditional approach.

Simon wrote this book for students and teachers who were interested to
discover a radical new method of explanation in statistics and probability.
The book will still work well for that purpose.  If you have done a statistics
course, but you kept feeling that you did not really understand it, or there

> was something fundamental missing that you could not put your finger on ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
was something fundamental missing that you could not put your finger on —
```

> good for you! -- and, please, read this book. There is a good chance that it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
good for you! — then, please, read this book. There is a good chance that it
```

explaining what statistics is, and *exactly* how it works, to anyone with the
patience to work through the examples, and think hard about the problems.  If
you have that patience, the rewards are great.  Not only will you understand

> statistics down to its deepest foundations, but you will have the tools to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
statistics down to its deepest foundations, but you will be able to
```

> think of your own tests, for your own problems, and build those tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
think of your own tests, for your own problems, and have the tools to implement them
```
